google Gemini have just released a brand
new update which is the Gemini canvas
and today I'm going to show you exactly
how to use it This is available for free
So anyone can get access to this and you
can basically write code and create
allin-one interactive space You can also
do deep research inside Gemini for free
as well which is super powerful And
essentially I'm going to be showing you
some of the best ways to use this how to
get access and what it is plus why it's
different right because obviously chat
GBT and Claude both have the canvas
feature inside it Actually took a long
time for Gemini to use this but I'm
going to show you step by step exactly
how it works why to use it and why this
is potentially better than other options
that you've got on the market right now
There's also some new features including
Gemini drawing which I'll show you in a
second and is really fun to play with
I'll show you how to use that step by
step But essentially what you can do
here is you can draft content and
websites like you can see you can also
create games and quizzes You can
visualize like coding So for example
like a website or an algorithm and that
sort of thing And even has like crazy
stuff like this physics particle
simulator It's pretty crazy Let's open
that up So we can actually try it right
now This is an example of the canvas So
if we click on these we can get an
example of it Let's try the coding
algorithm visualization as well So this
is another option and you can see here
for example if we press play this is
from Gemini canvas right now have you
ever seen something like this look as
good on say for example claude or for
example chat chet probably not right and
you can create this sort of stuff
without coding or any sort of coding
skills which is pretty amazing the same
with quizzes right so for example if we
go on this physics quiz example what is
the term for energy possessed by an
object due to its motion
Oh I actually got it right Wow I was
paying attention at school But yeah you
get the point Like you can create these
nicely designed quizzes Great for
training your team and also learning if
you have knowledge that you want to
improve etc And it's pretty simple and
easy to get access Just go to Canvas on
Google So if you want to try this out go
to Canvas like you can see right here
You can use this on the free plan So you
don't need to be paying for this to use
it And then for example we can select
canvas down here Right so that's the key
here Select canvas Now the cool thing
about Gemini is you can do live searches
as well So for example if we say okay
tell me what are today's news
headlines in AI right we'll test out I
also really like Gemini because number
one the UI is super nice but number two
as well it's really fast to respond Like
you can see how quick it responds to us
right which is pretty awesome when you
think about it because it just makes
everything easier Now using the canvas
feature if we say okay create a
beautiful landing page using this
information for my AI news website it's
going to start running that like you can
see and then we can use this to start
building this out right so wait for that
to load and you can see it's coding
right here so it's actually created now
and then look at the page you get back
like it looks really cool you can also
share this so you can share create on a
canvas subdomain like you see right here
So if we open this up this is the
subdomain we just created and we just
coded the whole website in what one
prompt one single prompt Plus we
connected Gemini to the internet to get
the latest news so that our page
actually looks better Now let me compare
how that looks versus something like
Claude Claude have just released web
search as well which is great But with
Claude let me show you an example of
what the difference is here Okay So if
we open this
up and we'll go to for example
leveraging web search over here We're
going to open this up This is an example
of the page that Claude did with pretty
much the same props Right now Claude has
always been like my favorite tool for
coding and that sort of thing But look
at the difference here And don't even
get get me started on chat I'll show you
the examples of chat chet in a second
and how that compares But look at the
difference in class here So this is the
example from Claude Really basic design
Doesn't look that modern Not really that
nice on responsive mode as well as you
can see Whereas compare that versus the
design quality of Gemini right gemini is
actually smart enough as well to figure
out okay I don't have any images to work
with So instead what I'm going to do is
I'm just going to fill in the blanks and
not leave any nasty black spaces for for
images to insert So inside Claude you
got all these boring gray sections where
I have to insert an image manually but I
can't because there's no upload feature
I'd have to go back and forth with ever
and ever again Whereas for example
inside
Gemini Gemini is so much better because
number one it creates a more modern
landing page but number two it's smart
enough to figure out okay I haven't got
any images to work with so let's just
insert that in right now Even worse you
might be saying "Okay but compare it to
chat GBT Compare combat canvas on Gemini
to chat." If we go into chat GBT and
we'll open up
the previous example that I did using
pretty much the same prompts right so we
went into chat GBT and we said "Find the
latest headlines from this week about
AI." So that's exactly what we did with
Gemini in this search Let me close this
Right So he said "Tell me what are
today's news headlines in AI." Same
prompt And it did it magic which is
great
But when we went to chat GPT we said
create a landing page website
beautifully designed using this
information Right that's the whole point
of this And if we compare them side by
side chat GPT is just all right mate I'm
not going to code it I'm not going to
create the landing page but here's just
some random information about me and you
know the page you want Whereas for
example Gemini was like boom shakalaka
Let's code this bad boy out Same prompt
same process but it was smart enough to
figure out okay we need HTML right and
so for me personally you compare the
coding quality of Gemini canvas versus
claude and Gemini's code is nicer Like
it the UI is 10 times nicer especially
on the canvas If we compare it versus
chat GPT Chat GPT doesn't even create
the website right it's just a very basic
website Now you might be saying okay but
what about Grock so we can compare Grock
side by side as well Let's do that We
use exactly the same prompts So let's
pull this up We'll say "Tell me what are
today's news headlines in AI." And we'll
open this up It does it and it's super
fast to reply That is impressive But now
we're going to say "Okay create a new
landing page and we'll just compare
which one does a better code which one
is a better option." Bear in mind Gemini
canvas is free so you're not paying for
Gemini I think Grock is very limited in
terms of its maximum responses per day
but let's see what we get back He is
really quick at replying with code So
we've got that ready to go Let's preview
it over here And look at that So that's
the response you get back from Grock Now
Grock is supposed to be like one of the
best AIs in the world But which one
gives you the better outputs which
landing page do you prefer is it this
one from Grock which is like super basic
super boring really basic design no
navigation bar there no logo no name of
the publication very short not nicely
designed no information about the
publication no contact us button and the
design is like really old style Or do
you want this style right from Gemini
which we did with exactly the same
prompts right which is for example you
got the AI news today It's got the
information about it It's nicely
designed It's got this clear CTA button
The information the headlines are good
It splits it into AI news and AI
resources And then you've also got some
information about AI today which is the
name of the publication Most people
don't know about this Like it's so brand
new Most people have not realized how
good Gemini just became at coding
especially on the front end It's
absolutely awesome And because it's
connected to the internet as well you
can create really good outputs And as
I've shown you today they're better than
Claude and they're better than Chat GP
And it tends to follow instructions
better than these tools as well Not just
that right so inside Gemini as well
because you have the new canvas feature
if we open up a new chat here and I'm
going to upload one of I'm going to
upload my book right my link building
mastery book So let me find that one
Let's pull this up for example Where is
it now there we go All right So this is
a book that I wrote a few years ago
called SEO Link Building Mastery So
we're uploading that document And you
can see here we don't need to prompt it
We don't need to give it any
instructions but it will come up with
this option to generate an audio
overview right and so we can now create
a podcast using Gemini directly right
this kind of like a notebook LM feature
that they've inserted into Google Gemini
which is awesome
because this is totally unique right
tell me how to do this with Claude or
Chat GPT or Grock You can't is very
unique cuz all of a sudden and it's not
taking a few days it's only taken one
single update for Gemini to really get
back in the race and to become something
that's super powerful and super useful
right and so if you're not using this
stuff bearing in mind it's free like
you're missing out really cuz it's
really powerful and super easy to use
and get set up Just wanted to show you
that because we'll wait for that to load
But the fact that you can generate
podcasts on the spot the fact that you
can create beautifully designed websites
on the spot and you don't need to be
able to code for any of this Plus it
requires very minimal prompting and it
outperforms chat GPT Claude and Grock
Shows you how powerful this stuff is
Right let me go back to some of the
other previous examples I've done So
I've actually created a audio overview
example right here So this is the audio
overview from a previous example using
the exact same document right so this is
a link builder mastery book and bear in
mind this is a 69page book right now if
we actually open this up what this is
going to be is an example
of two different
AIs speaking to each other right one's
female one's male as a voice and they're
basically speaking to each other about
my book so today we're going to dive
into something that I think a lot of
people struggle
with going to try to demystify lead
golden for SEO Oh yeah And we are to be
using a really cool ebook that I found
It's called Link Building Mastery by
Julian Goldie Oh fantastic And who's an
absolute legend By the way in this deep
dive we're really trying to drill down
for your own what are the most effective
ethical link building techniques that
you can use to improve your website's
best So I'm not going to play any more
than that cuz otherwise you're just
watching a couple of AIS talk to each
other and that wouldn't be super
exciting But you get the point like you
can create a really powerful podcast
that's super contextually relevant to
what you've talked about It references
me the name of the book All we had to do
was upload the book Like it required
very little prompting and it was
incredibly easy to do And that's the
power of this is like you can do that
all with one single prompt and then you
could even for example turn that into a
website and all of a sudden you can take
one piece of content and chop it up
across 11 different platforms at least
and it is incredibly easy to do that So
if you've not tested this out you're
missing out And you can see the power of
it Now what you can also do here is you
can download it right so you can
download that file then you could upload
it to SoundCloud for example and you can
even turn that into a YouTube video as
well You can also for example share this
link So you can share this to social
media or you can copy the link You can
delete it at any time as well And you
could also go back and forth inside
Gemini and ask it to improve things as
well But yeah really cool You can also
for example like edit the instructions
So you could regenerate the audio
overview but give it more instructions
on what you want them to talk about how
to talk about you etc And all of a
sudden you can turn like any document
into a piece of content that's actually
quite interesting Like this is genuinely
interesting Is 6 minutes 40 seconds long
like you see right here And you can
easily embed that online as well So you
get the point of exactly how to use this
what it's useful for creating websites
Here's another example So this is Gemini
drawing I think this is based on the new
Gemini 2.0 native image generation
update But for example if we draw a
stickman like you can see right here
Right so this is another feature of
Gemini And then what we're going to do
from here is we're going to say okay
make this stick man way more interesting
And Gemini with this awesome tool on
hugging face is smart enough to figure
out okay this is a picture of a stick
man a drawing and let's make it more
interesting So we'll see what we get
back here You can also change the color
in the top left or you can delete it etc
You see how that's just taken the
drawing that we previously created and
then totally updated it with like shoes
and hands and like a crazy face etc
Gemini is super powerful Here's another
example So this is using canvas feature
this Twitter post from Punam Sony who
says they actually created a pong game
So you can create interactive games
directly
inside Gemini canvas You don't need to
have to code So for example if we say
okay create a pingpong game make sure
you've got canvas selected right here
Hit enter and then boom shaka laka We've
got the ping pong game ready to go And
it was really simple and easy to build
right it might take a couple of minutes
to generate It is a game but it's
designed in HTML which is
awesome I'm going to turn the sound off
but you see how easy that was to build
Like it's got the sound It works
perfectly It actually works Back in the
day back in the 80s right you'd have a
whole team building this out Now someone
like me can just go on and say "Create
this," and it'll go off create it and
you're ready to go So really powerful
Super impressive I've never really been
impressed with Google Gemini but this
one was special And I think if they keep
going on that trajectory the AI are only
going to get better and better So if you
want to get access to all my best
prompts AI agents workflows if you want
to make more money with AI and also save
time save hundreds of AI feel free to
get the AI profit boardroom prices going
up at the end of the month This comes
with all my best automations on email
content automation Bear in mind each one
of these modules is like a full course
So if you just want to learn as much as
you can about AI this is awesome And if
you want to make it super actionable get
the crash course right and just start
here Do this and then implement one of
these systems a week and I can almost
guarantee that you'll save hundreds of
hours just like we have by scaling with
AI On top of that inside the SAP section
here this is updated all the time with
my latest tools tips templates workflows
We released some M MCP agents this week
as well So there's some absolutely
awesome stuff in there And then also
inside the community if you ever get
stuck you can post inside the community
We've got 489 members to help you out
like you can see right here And people
are getting their questions answered
really quickly So you can see here for
example someone posted 4 days ago and
they get their answer within 24 hours
usually less This person asked a
question yesterday and they got an
answer yesterday right and so the whole
community here is just dedicated to
helping you out helping you grow make
more money with AI and also there's
weekly Q&A so you can jump on with us as
well So some awesome stuff in there as
well And if you want to get a free
one-to-one SEO strategy session feel
free to get that link inside the
comments in description On this free SEO
strategy session we'll show you how to
take websites from zero to 145,000
visits this month and generate hundreds
of thousands of dollars in sales on
autopilot And you'll basically get a
free custom tailored SEO game plan
onetoone If you want to learn how AI is
changing the game if you want to learn
how to get more leads traffic and sales
with SEO etc then this is definitely
well worth booking in It's completely
free and you can see all the stuff that
we've used to help our clients We've got
lots of happy clients I think we've got
over 100 testimonials on our website now
as an SEO agency So feel free to get
that link in the comments description to
the free SEO strategy session